---
layout: note
title: CS & Web Concepts
parent: Home
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

## All the good qualities that must be adhered to in the process of technical growth

> 取法其上，得乎其中，取法其中，得乎其下，取法其下，法不得也。——孔子教育弟子时说
>
> 学习之道：读书学习不能「死」学，如果生搬硬套，则只有形体而缺乏神韵。
>
> 读一本好书，如若无法领悟其精髓，又如何能够应用于自己的生活中呢？
>
> 所以，要辩证地学习，同时要学习创新。

1. lifelong learning
2. hands-on practice
3. learn to think
4. master the basics, buy old books
5. Review history

## Coding Fundamentals

**Good code is when you can see a special case and make it go away so it becomes the normal case.**

- [[Algorithms and Data Structure]]
- [[Operating System Principle]]
- [[Compilation Principle]]
- [[Database Principles]]
- [[Computer Principles and Architecture]]
- [[Mathematics]]
- [[Computer Network]]
- [[Programming Languages and Compilers]]
- [[Programming Paradigm]]
- [[Distributed Technology Architecture]]
- Before writing the code, draw the flowchart

- [[The Unix Philosophy]]
- [[What is Refactoring]]
- [[Object Oriented Programming]]

- [[Boolean]]
- [[Transclusion]]
- [[Semantics]]

How can I become a full-stack engineer?

- Traditional front-end skills: HTML, JavaScript, CSS
- A back-end language
- Mobile development: iOS / Android / HTML5
- Other skills: database, HTTP, etc.

The dynamics of the software industry

Historical evolution: no separation of front and back ends -> separation of front and back ends -> full stack engineer

Motivation: more industrialized, mass production of software

- Higher efficiency
- Lower cost

Technologies that are generic and can produce quickly will eventually win, and the productivity of individual programmers is increasingly demanding.

## H5 is a perfect example

Why is H5 technology winning mobile?

- Fast development: Native requires recompilation to see results, H5 is instant output
- Low development cost: Native requires two development teams, H5 requires one
- Fast release: Android Native takes 24 hours for a new version, iOS takes 3 to 4 days, H5 can be updated anytime.

## Features of future software

- Networking
- Highly concurrent
- Distributed
- Cross-Terminal

What is now a Web-based front-end technology will evolve into a common GUI solution for all software of the future.

## There are only two kinds of software engineers in the future

- endpoint engineers
  - Mobile
  - PC-side
  - TV side
  - VR side
  - ......
- Cloud Engineer

## Practices

- [[A Variable Should Have Clear and Obvious Naming]]
- [[Naming a Function]]
- [[Structuring Your Python Project]]

---

## Web Infrastructure

- [[HTTP]]
- [[A Mental Model of the Infrastructure of the Internet]]
- [[What happens when you visit a web page]]
- [[What happens when you search for content on the web?]]

- [[Common Terminology]]

  - [[Servers]]
  - [[Protocols]]
  - [[Packets]]
  - [[IP Address]]
  - [[DNS]] - Domain Name System
  - [[Clients & Servers]]

- [[Types of Networks]]
- [[HTTP Status Codes]]

### Databases

- [[SQL vs NoSQL]]

### API's

- [[API's]]
  - [[RESTful Web Services]]

---

## Web Development Concepts

- [[Front End vs Back End Coding]]

### Front End Coding

- [[Introduction to Front End Coding]]
- [[Front End Developer Roadmap]]

### Back End Coding

- [[CMS]] - content management systems
- [[Back End Developer Roadmap]]

### DevOps

- [[DevOps Roadmap]]

## Data Engineering

- [[Data Engineer Roadmap]]

## Tools

- [[Cron Jobs]]
- [[Commonly used computer English]]

---

ref: <https://github.com/ruanyf/jstraining/blob/master/docs/history.md>
